Let's talk about Indexed Access Types.
The concept here is we're
going to grab a piece of type
information from another type using
something that feels like a property key.
So let's imagine we have
an interface called Car,
we can grab just the type
of the color property here.
Using, it kind of looks like
the square bracket access notation for
taking something off of a dictionary or
accessing an element of an array.
Note that although when working with
values using the square brackets,
we know that we can use .notation, right?
So if we have a dictionary, and
we saw this we probably say,
well why don't you just
doing like car.color?
That will not work here,
this must be using square brackets.
And you have to pass a string
literal type into it.
So there is some enforcement
of a constraint here,
so color is present on key of car.
But look what happens if we use
something that's not on car.
So you'll get an error message.
There is some validations
helps catch spelling errors or
if you were to remove something
from car you think it's unused,
then have confidence that all of these
index access types will light up.
And of course you can repeat this pattern,
right?
So if we only wanted to have
the red part of car color,
we could say give me color, and
then within that just grab read.
And so you could see these boxes, these
square brackets applied over and over.
Interestingly, if we
pass a union type through
this indexed access type,
we get a union type out.
So year is a number, color is red,
green, and blue on an object.
So you can see here it's,
I call this projecting, right,
you can almost sort of send your union
type of keys into this index access type.
And you get arguing union type of types of
the values instead of types of the keys.
Pretty straightforward concept, it's
just sort of accessing a piece by name.
And I know I use similar language
to describe, extract, and exclude.
Hopefully you can see
the difference between what we're
looking at here which is grabbing
a chunk of an object type as is.
As opposed to the conditional
type with the infer keyword,
where we were grabbing the constructor or
looking at the construct signature,
plugging up the argument out of that.
That's a much more heavy handed way
to do things behind the scenes it's
also much more expensive
to do things that way.
This is cheap, this will not
really affect your performance.
Okay, last big concept and it's a big one,
this is like a triple size section here,
it's mapped types.
So let's take a look at that.